# Sales - and - Finance - SQL Report - Atliq
Now first let's understand the Atliq Hardware's business model. 
Atliq is a company that sells hardware like PCs, mouse, printer, keyboard and so on to different customers. This model is similar to HP or Dell in the hardware market. They make hardware and sell it to the customers like: croma, bestbuy, amazon, flipkart, etc; then these customers sell these hardware to end consumer who uses them. Atliq has manufacturing plants where they build all the the hardware products and then store it in the warehouse distribution centers in different countries, so they ship their material to different locations and from there hardware material go to the different individual stores(customers). Now here we have two type of stores that is bestbuy, croma which are physical stores which fall under the category of brick and mortar type of customer and another are the websites from which you can buy harwares like: amazon, flipkart they fall under the category of e-commerce type of customers. We will refer to it as platform when we look at it in the database. There is also the concept of channel also, so when Atliq sells the hardware to customers like: croma, amazon this channel fall under the category of the "retailers". Atliq has it own stores such as: Atliq-e-Stores, Atliq Exlusive where they sell the hardwares directly to the consumers, this channel falls under the category of "direct". There is a concept od "distributors" also where in countries like china, korea there are government regulations where Atliq can't sell hardwares directly to customers but have to sell it to the one big distributor which sells it to the local stores in their country. Therefore, this is the concept of the channel: retailer, direct, distributor.
Now let's take a brief look at the profit and loss statement concepts.
Assume that Atliq sells a mouse to croma at the gross price of $30. So, Atliq will give some fixed-discount to croma at the beginning of the financial year. This discount will be based on the relationship of atliq with croma as they doing business together from few years. This is called the "Pre-Invoice Deductions", yearly discounts made at the beginning of each financial year. Let's say this discount is for $2, usually this discount is in percentage but we are taking the example here. So, you now get the "Net Invoice Sales" of $28. At the end the Atliq will give some promotional offers to customers, they will give some placement fees to the croma to place their product a premium place so that it can boost their sales and at last they will give some performance rebate at the end of the month/quater/year to croma based on the sales of their products. So, adding up "Promotional Offers"+"Placement Fees"+"Performance Rebate" these collectively will come under "Post-Invoice Deductions". Let's assume it to be $3. So, at the end Atliq is selling a mouse at $25($30-$2-$3) which will be termed as "Net Sales". There will be some cost associated with building the mouse which will be the "Cost of Goods Sold"(COGS) which is around $20. So, Atliq is making the "Gross Margin" of $5. Therefore, Gross Margin % of Net Sales (GM/NS) is 20%.
